### Intro to C++ Transcript

What's up YouTube, my name is SupremeLeaderAlbert and this is the first video in a tutorial series that I will be doing on how to code in the programming language C++. I'm actually doing this for a project in Grade 12 computer science, in which I've decided to make a series of videos designed to teach beginners how to code in a specific programming language. If this series is successful, I might do another one on JavaScript, and, well, we'll see where to go from there. Don't worry if you've never coded before in your life; these tutorials are going to be very simple and beginner-friendly. You won't have any trouble following along at all. So, this is sort of like an introduction video; I probably won't do much coding in it. I'm just going to run over how to download and install C++ on your Mac or Windows computer. And the reason that I am doing a whole separate video on how to get C++ working on your computer is that it can be kind of difficult if you have a Mac. This is because the operating system macOS does not support Windows apps. So if you are on Windows, you can just go to this url (https://sourceforge.net/projects/orwelldevcpp/) and click the green download button, right here. Once you've installed it, you're good to go, you probably don't even need to watch the rest of this video. For a Mac, you will need to download something called Atom. Now, Atom is an open-source code editor made by the awesome people at Github that supports a whole bunch of programming languages, including but not limited to C++. To download Atom, you'll go to atom.io, and click the red button that says "download for Mac". Now, I already have Atom downloaded and installed on my computer, it's right here in my dock. So I'm going to go ahead and open it up. Now, this is what you should see when you open Atom up for the very first time: we have a welcome window and a neat little guide. We don't need either of those right now, so I'll just close them, and now we can get started. What you will need to do now is download a package in Atom that will allow you to compile and run code in C++. So, what you want to do is press Command+Shift+P and type "settings". Now this opens up the settings in Atom, you can go through it on your own time and customize the settings however you like. What we want to do is click on Install. Now, under the Install Packages search bar, make sure that it is set to Packages, not Themes, and then search for gpp-compiler. Now this is the one that we want: it's made by kriscross07 and at the time of me making this video it has roughly 100,000 downloads. This is what will allow us to compile and run C++ within Atom. Now, as you can see, I've already installed gpp-compiler, but you should have a blue install button. Click that, wait until it is installed, and then you'll be ready to continue with me. So now it should allow us to compile and run C++ in Atom, but I'd like to test that, just to make sure. So we can close settings and open up a new file. First of all, before we do anything else, we want to click on "Save As" under "File" and give it a name. Call it whatever you want; I'm going to call mine introtocplusplus.cpp. The file extension .cpp is important, because it means that Atom will now recognize it as a C++ file. So now that we have a C++ file, I'm going to do something. If you are completely new to programming, you are not going to understand this at all, but that's completely fine because for now, at least, you don't need to understand it. So, (type in code and cout<<hello world). There we go. Now, I have a basic program that will print "Hello world!" to the Terminal. And you probably have a taste of C++ now, even if you don't understand it. Never fear, we will cover all of this (select code) in future videos. So now that this program is written, we can right-click and click on "Compile and Run". There we go! Hello world! Now, we got a whole bunch of stuff here that I don't really want, it makes the "hello world" hard to see, and it just messes up the output screen. But I don't know how to get rid of it yet, so if someone who is watching this knows, please let me know in the comments. Anyway, we now have a functioning C++ editor on our Mac that can compile and run code. In the next video, we'll learn the basics of C++, and how to print to the screen like I just did here in this video. So please like and subscribe, follow me on Instagram @supremeleaderalbert, and I'll see you all in the next video.
